what is
going on here
oh my god hey nick studying for
interview
yeah i am but i'm really nervous
i mean i can't even invert a binary tree
or reverse a linked list wait when's
your interview
uh i think it's in like five minutes
okay you know what you're probably gonna
fail but if you ever get stuck
just throw a hash map at the problem
throw a hash map
what
okay it's time
[Music]
hey nick i'm nick with a k and i'm a
senior software engineer
here at face on google flicks i'm just
going to send over a coder pad and then
we can get started
yep sounds good so here's the problem
given an array of integers nums and an
integer target
return indices of the two numbers such
that they add up to target
and you can just assume that there will
always be a solution
what an easy problem i did this last
night but i'm going to pretend i've
never seen this before
hmm interesting yeah so
i guess my initial approach would be to
use two for loops and then
iterate through the array checking
whether the sum of the current number
and each of the numbers in front of it
adds up to the target
yep that sounds like a good start do you
want to code it up
yeah sure no problem i'll start coding
it up right now
and then in the event that there are no
solutions then we can just throw an
error
yeah so that should work and it's time
complexity is o of n squared
because for each element we're looping
through the rest of the array to find
its complement
which takes of n time and also the space
complexity
is of one okay that seems all right but
it's a bit slow as you mentioned it's
quadratic in time
do you think you could make it even
faster of course
i knew this was coming yeah so we can
just sort the array first
and then use a left and a right pointer
and move those
towards the middle of the array
accordingly based on whether the sum
is less than or greater than our target
and so the time complexity of this
solution
would be o of n log n because we need to
sort the array
and then we also have just one pass
through the array which is all of n
and also our space complexity will be of
one
yes i did it i definitely passed the
interview
well yes this is a bit better but it's
still kind of slow
i want you to think of a solution in
linear time
what linear time i thought i already got
the optimal solution
there's no way you can make it even
faster hmm
ah well i
uh i guess we we could uh
maybe uh instead of
doing uh what we had before we could uh
instead uh do
uh uh nick we only have about five
minutes left
so if you can't think of a better
solution don't worry about it come on
nick
think think what could we do
man i'm so stuck wait
stuck if you ever get stuck just throw a
hash map at the problem
throw a hash map at the problem
that's it i'll use a hash map yeah so
we can use a hash map we can just
iterate through the array
and find the complement of each number
and if the complement already exists as
a key in the hashmap
we can just return the corresponding
value which is going to be an index
along with our current index and the sum
of the
two numbers at those indices will add up
to our target
and if the complement does not already
exist
as a key in the hashmap then we're just
going to store our current number
along with our current index in our hash
map yep that sounds like a pretty good
plan
we only have a few more minutes though
so if you could code that up quickly
that'd be great
yeah sure i can start coding it up now
and then again as i mentioned in the
event that
um the complement does not exist in the
hashmap then we're just going to store
our current number along with its index
in the hashmap
so that should work and in terms of time
complexity we're only looping through
the array once
and since hashmaps have constant lookup
times this algorithm
is simply o of n in time and our hashmap
would store at most n
elements so it's going to be of n in
space
yes i finally did it i definitely passed
now
perfect well done nick that concludes
the interview for today
keep an eye out for an email to schedule
your next interview alright
have a nice day nick thank you you too
wait did he just say next interview
there's more
you